.\" Manpage for fccanalysis-script
.\" Contact FCC-PED-SoftwareAndComputing-Analysis@cern.ch to correct errors or typos.
.TH FCCANALYSIS\-SCRIPT 7 "10 May 2025" "0.11.0" "fccanalysis-script man page"

.SH NAME
\fBfccanalysis\-script\fR \(en analysis steering script specification

.SH SYNOPSIS
.IP
*

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The analysis script is expected to be a valid Python script containing either
part of or the full analysis. There are two basic modes how to run an
analysis, one is to run in the managed mode like so:
.IP
fccanalysis run \fIanalysis_script.py\fR
.RE

or
.IP
fccanalysis final \fIanalysis_script.py\fR

.PP
where user needs to provide minimal number of variables and settings. In this
mode the RDataFrame is managed for the user and it can be controlled by defining
several global attributes in the analysis script. The other mode is to run the
analysis script as a regular python script:
.IP
python \fIanalysis_script.py\fR
.PP
here user has full control over the RDataFrame, but has to create all necessary
scaffolding\&.

.PP
It is expected that the whole analysis will be split into several stages, which
can be done in one of the two styles:
.IP
anascript_stage1.py \-> anascript_stage2.py \-> ... \-> anascript_stage_final.py \-> plots.py
.RE

or
.IP
analysis_histmaker.py \-> plots.py

.PP
In the case of the first style there are at least three stages required
(anascript_stage1.py, anascript_stage_final.py, plots.py) and there is no upper
limit on the number of stages. In the case of the second style only two stages
are required. The first style is named "staged analysis" and the second
"histmaker analysis".
.TP
\fBstaged analysis\fR
The analysis script needs to contain \fIAnalysis\fR class of the following
structure:
.IP
class Analysis():
    def __init__(self, cmdline_args):
        ...

    def analyzers(self, dframe):
        dframe2 = (
            dframe
            # define the muon collection
            .Define("muons",
                    "ReconstructedParticle::get(Muon0, ReconstructedParticles)")
            ...
        )
        return dframe2

    def output(self):
        return ["muons", "muon_mass"]
.TP
\fBhistmaker analysis\fR
The analysis script needs to contain \fIbuild_graph\fR function of the following
structure:
.IP
def build_graph(df, dataset):
    results = []
    df = df.Define("weight", "1.0")
    weightsum = df.Sum("weight")
    df = df.Define("muons", "FCCAnalyses::ReconstructedParticle::sel_p(20)(muons_all)")
    ...
    results.append(df.Histo1D(("muons_p_cut0", "", *bins_p_mu), "muons_p"))
    return results, weightsum
.TP
\fBfinal and plots stages\fR
These stages do not require \fIAnalysis\fR class neither \fIbuild_graph\fR
function, they have their own set of attributes, please see the
examples in the \fIexamples\fR directory or fccanalysis-final-script(7) and
fccanalysis-plots-script(7).

.SH ATTRIBUTES
In case of running the FCCAnalysis in the managed mode user can use the
following global attributes to control the behavior of the analysis.
.TP
\fBprocess_list\fR (mandatory)
Dictionary of process samples to be run over. Each process can have several
parameters:
\fIfraction\fR
.in +4
The analysis will run over reduced number of input files roughly corresponding
to the fraction of total events specified\&.
.br
Default value: 1 (full process sample)
.in -4
\fIinput_dir\fR
.in +4
Specifies the location of the process different from the globally set one\&.
This overrides both prod_tag and input_dir attributes of the analysis script\&.
.br
Default value: None
.in -4
\fIoutput\fR
.in +4
Specifies the stem for the output file(s)\&. The stem will be used to create
output directory if there is more than one chunk or as a filename if there is
only one\&.
.br
Default value: output\&.root
.in -4
\fIchunks\fR
.in +4
The analysis can be split into several output chunks (useful on distributed
systems)\&.
.br
Default value: 1
.TP
\fBprod_tag\fR (mandatory)
Provides information where to find input files. There are several way how to
find the information, one of them uses YAML file which is being searched for in
the sub-folders of $FCCDICTSDIR\&.
.TP
\fBoutput_dir\fR (mandatory)
User can specify the directory for the output files\&.
.TP
\fBanalysis_name\fR (optional)
Optional name for the analysis
.br
Default value: empty string
.TP
\fBn_threads\fR (optional)
Number of threads the RDataFrame will use during processing\&.
.br
Default value: 1
.TP
\fBbatch_queue\fR (optional)
Batch queue name when running on HTCondor.
.br
Default value: "longlunch"
.TP
\fBcomp_group\fR (optional)
Computing account when running on HTCondor.
.br
Default value: "group_u_FCC.local_gen"
.TP
\fBoutput_dir_eos\fR (optional)
Output directory on EOS, if specified files will be copied there once the batch
job is done.
.br
Default value: empty string
.TP
\fBeos_type\fR (optional)
Type of the EOS proxy to be used.
.br
Default value: user
.TP
\fBtest_file\fR (optional)
Location of the test file provided as a string (\fBstr\fR) or a template
(\fBstring.Template\fR). In case of the template two variables are supported:
\fBkey4hep_os\fR and \fBkey4hep_stack\fR.
.br
Default value: empty string
.TP
\fBgraph\fR (optional)
The computational graph of the analysis will be generated.
.br
Default value: False
.TP
\fBgraph_path\fR (optional)
Location where the computational graph of the analysis should be stored. Only
paths with \fI.dot\fR and \fI.png\fR extensions are accepted.
.br
Default value: empty string
.TP
\fBuse_data_source\fR (optional)
User can specify how to provide physical object collections to the analyzers\&.
If \fITrue\fR the events will be loaded through the EDM4hep RDataSource\&.
.br
Default value: False
.TP
\fBdo_weighted\fR (optional)
Whether to use weighted or raw events\&. 
If \fITrue\fR the events will be weighted with EDM4hep's EventHeader.weight 
and all normalisation factors calculated with sum of weights accordingly\&.
.br
Default value: False
.TP
.B proc_dict
This variable controls which process dictionary will be used. It can be either
simple file name, absolute path or url. In the case of simple filename, the file
is being searched for first in the working directory and then at the locations
indicated in the $FCCDICTSDIR environment variable.
.PP
This section is under construction. You are invited to help :)

.SH SEE ALSO
fccanalysis(1), fccanalysis-run(1)

.SH BUGS
Many

.SH AUTHORS
There are many contributors to the FCCAnalyses framework, but the principal
authors are:
.in +4
Clement Helsens
.br
Valentin Volkl
.br
Gerardo Ganis

.SH FCCANALYSES
Part of the FCCAnalyses framework\&.

.SH LINKS
.PP
.UR https://hep-fcc\&.github\&.io/FCCAnalyses/
FCCAnalyses webpage
.UE
.PP
.UR https://github\&.com/HEP\-FCC/FCCAnalyses/
FCCAnalysises GitHub repository
.UE
.PP
.UR https://fccsw\-forum\&.web\&.cern\&.ch/
FCCSW Forum
.UE

.SH CONTACT
.pp
.MT FCC-PED-SoftwareAndComputing-Analysis@cern.ch
FCC-PED-SoftwareAndComputing-Analysis
.ME
