.\" Manpage for fccanalysis-run
.\" Contact FCC-PED-SoftwareAndComputing-Analysis@cern.ch to correct errors or typos.
.TH FCCANALYSIS\-RUN 1 "12 June 2025" "0.12.0" "fccanalysis-run man page"

.SH NAME
\fBfccanalysis\-run\fR \- run FCC analysis

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B fccanalysis run
[\fB\-h\fR | \fB\-\-help\fR]
[\fB\-i\fR \fIINPUT_FILE\fR [\fIINPUT_FILE\fR ...], \fB\-\-input\fR \fIINPUT_FILE\fR [\fIINPUT_FILE\fR ...]]
[\fB\-\-files\-list\fR \fIINPUT_FILE\fR [\fIINPUT_FILE\fR ...]]
[\fB\-f\fR \fILIST_FILE\fR, \fB\-\-input\-file\-list\fR \fILIST_FILE\fR]
[\fB\-\-output\fR \fIOUTPUT\fR]
[\fB\-\-nevents\fR \fINEVENTS\fR]
[\fB\-\-test\fR]
[\fB\-\-bench\fR]
[\fB\-j\fR NCPUS | \fB\-\-ncpus\fR \fINCPUS\fR | \fB\-\-n-threads\fR \fINTHREADS\fR]
[\fB\-g\fR]
[\fB\-\-graph\-path\fR \fIGRAPH_PATH\fR]
[\fB\-\-use-data-source\fR]
[\fB\-\-output\-dir\fR \fIOUTPUT_DIR\fR]
[\fB\-\-output\-format\fR {\fBttree\fR,\fBrntuple\fR}]
[\fB\-a\fR \fIANALYSIS_NAME\fR | \fB\-\-analysis\-name\fR \fIANALYSIS_NAME\fR]
[\fB\-\-apply\-filepath\-rewrites\fR | \fB\-\-no\-filepath\-rewrites\fR]
[\fB\-s\fR \fISAMPLE_NAME\fR | \fB\-\-sample\-name\fR \fISAMPLE_NAME\fR]
[\fB\-\-n\-chunks\fR \fIN_CHUNKS\fR]
[\fB\-\-stride\fR \fISTRIDE\fR]
[\fB\-\-test\-file\fR \fITEST_FILE\fR]
.B analysis-script
\-\-
[\fIANALYSIS ARGUMENTS\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B fccanalysis\-run
will run analysis provided in the analysis script on the current machine, i.e.
locally\&. The analysis itself can be divided into several stages, if desired\&.
For all those stages \fIfccanalysis-run\fR is used\&.

When using \fBfccanalysis-run\fR the analysis is running in the managed mode,
where the RDataFrame is steered by the framework and users can control only
some aspects of the running with additional global attributes, see
\fBfccanalysis-script\fR(7).

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B analysis-script
Path to analysis script\&.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Prints short help message and exits\&.
.TP
\fB\-i\fR \fIINPUT_FILE\fR [\fIINPUT_FILE\fR ...], \fB\-\-input\fR \fIINPUT_FILE\fR [\fIINPUT_FILE\fR ...]
Directly specify input ROOT files for the analysis\&. Takes precedence over the
files provided in a file list or the files determined from the
\fBprocess_list\fR of the analysis\&.
.TP
\fB\-\-files\-list\fR \fIINPUT_FILE\fR [\fIINPUT_FILE\fR ...]
[DEPRECATED] Directly specify input ROOT files for the analysis\&.
.TP
\fB\-\-input\-file\-list\fR \fILIST_FILE\fR
Specify file containing list of input ROOT files to be used for the analysis\&.
Takes precedence over the files determined from the \fBprocess_list\fR of the
analysis\&. Each input ROOT file needs to be on a separate line\&. Lines
starting with "#" are ignored\&.
.TP
\fB\-\-output\fR \fIOUTPUT\fR
Specify output file name, otherwise dataset name used.
.TP
\fB\-\-nevents\fR \fINEVENTS\fR, \fB\-\-n\-events\fR \fINEVENTS\fR
Specify max number of events to process\&.
.TP
.B \-\-test
Run over the test file\&.
.TP
.B \-\-use-data-source
Load events through podio::DataSource\&.
.TP
\fB\-\-output\-dir\fR \fIOUTPUT_DIR\fR
Set global output directory for the analysis.
.TP
\fB\-\-output\-format\fR {\fBttree\fR, \fBrntuple\fR}
Specify the output file format.
.br
Default value: \fBttree\fR.
.TP
\fB\-a\fR \fIANALYSIS_NAME\fR, \fB\-\-analysis\-name\fR \fIANALYSIS_NAME\fR
Set analysis name, mostly used for the output path.
.TP
.BR \-\-apply\-filepath\-rewrites ", " \-\-no\-filepath\-rewrites
Apply or disable path rewrites for files stored on shared file systems.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR \fISAMPLE_NAME\fR, \fB\-\-sample\-name\fR \fISAMPLE_NAME\fR
Set sample name, mostly used for the output path. Used when running over an
independent sample (i.e. without a sample list).
.TP
\fB\-\-n\-chunks\fR \fIN_CHUNKS\fR
Split the output into \fIN_CHUNKS\fR files. Used only when running over a
test file or an independent sample.
.TP
\fB\-\-stride\fR \fISTRIDE\fR
Specify how to stride through the events. Used only when running over a
test file or an independent sample.
.TP
\fB\-\-test\-file\fR \fITEST_FILE\fR
Specify the test file to use when running with \fB\-\-test\fR.
.TP
.B \-\-bench
Output benchmark results to a JSON file\&.
.TP
\fB\-j\fR \fINCPUS\fR, \fB\-\-ncpus\fR \fINCPUS\fR (deprecated), \fB\-\-n\-threads\fR NTHREADS
Set number of jobs (threads) to use\&. The default number of threads to use is
1\&. To use all threads available on the machine specify -1\&.
.TP
.BR \-g ", " \-\-graph
The computational graph of the analysis will be generated\&.
.TP
\fB\-\-graph\-path\fR \fIGRAPH_PATH\fR
Location where the computational graph of the analysis should be stored. Only
paths with \fI.dot\fR and \fI.png\fR extensions are accepted.
.TP
.I ANALYSIS ARGUMENTS
Command line arguments which will not be parsed by the framework and will be
passed directly to the analysis script\&.

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.TP
.B FCCDICTSDIR
Controls search path for the process dictionaries. The default value is
\fI/cvmfs/fcc.cern.ch/FCCDicts/\fR\&.

.SH SEE ALSO
fccanalysis(1), fccanalysis-script(7)

.SH BUGS
Many

.SH AUTHORS
There are many contributors to the FCCAnalyses framework, but the principal
authors are:
.in +4
Clement Helsens
.br
Valentin Volkl
.br
Gerardo Ganis

.SH FCCANALYSES
Part of the FCCAnalyses framework\&.

.SH LINKS
.PP
.UR https://hep-fcc\&.github\&.io/FCCAnalyses/
FCCAnalyses webpage
.UE
.PP
.UR https://github\&.com/HEP\-FCC/FCCAnalyses/
FCCAnalyses GitHub repository
.UE
.PP
.UR https://fccsw\-forum\&.web\&.cern\&.ch/
FCCSW Forum
.UE

.SH CONTACT
.pp
.MT FCC-PED-SoftwareAndComputing-Analysis@cern.ch
FCC-PED-SoftwareAndComputing-Analysis
.ME
